=== 第 12 页 ===

5301ELE and 5401ELE
R/W M (Read/Write Memory): Popularly known as RAM - Volatile memory
Two Types – Static and Dynamic
Static RAM: Made up of flip-flops stores bit as voltage; Memory cell requires 6
transistors – so chip is low density but high speed; More expensive, consumes more
power than dynamic RAM; In high speed processors-SRAM-cache provided internal
and external to the chip to improve performance of the system
Dynamic RAM: Made up of MOS transistor gates & stores bits as a charge; Adv.-High
density and low power consumption & cheaper than SRAM; Disadv. – charge leaks,
so need to be refreshed every few ms– requires extra circuitry-more cost-low speed
compared to the processor; More appropriate for system requiring at least 8K memory
ROM (Read Only Memory): Non-Volatile memory – retains stored info - power turned
off - Used for programs and data that need not be altered - Bit pattern stored –
permanent/semi-permanent - Permanent – masked ROM and PROM - Semi-
permanent – EPROM and EE-PROM
Masked ROM: Bit pattern – permanently recorded by the masking and metallisation
process
PROM (Programmable Read-Only Memory): Has nichrome or polysilicon wires
arranged in a matrix – functionally viewed as diodes or fuses - Can be programmed by
the user with a special PROM programmer – selectively burns the fuses according to
the bit pattern to be stored
EPROM: Stores bit by charging floating gate of an FET; Info stored by using an
EPROM programmer – applies high voltage to charge the gate - All the information –
erased by exposing the chip to UV light through its quartz window – and the chip can
be reprogrammed; Disadv. – chip must be removed from the circuit – entire chip must
be erased – erasing process takes 20-25 minutes
EE-PROM: Functionally similar to EPROM- except –the info can be altered electrically
at the register level rather than erasing all the info - Has an adv. – field and remote
control applications.
Flash Memory: Variation of EE-PROM – variation in erasure procedure; Must be
erased either in its entirety or at the sector (block) level; Can be erased and
programmed million times; Used to require 12V power supply – but now as low as 1.8V
– so suitable for low-power systems
(c) Briefly discuss some practical applications of embedded systems. In what way are
FPGA and PLC systems different from embedded systems? [4 Marks]
The answer should cover the points around Microcontrollers must form the control logic for
Embedded systems; FPGA could be used to design specific embedded applications, but do
not have microcontrollers as part of their design. Though they can be programmed at register
level they do not have the flexibility to cater to a wide range of embedded applications. They
are classed as VLSI. PLC systems are logic control systems using electromechanical
components. They cannot be made fully programmable like microcontroller based embedded
systems.
(d) Polling and Interrupts are two different techniques used in embedded systems for I/O
interfacing. Compare and contrast the two mechanisms in terms of operational and
energy efficiency, time, and power consumption. [9 Marks]
January 2023 Page 12 of 13